[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ISABEAU MAXWELL: My
experience with intuition
is that we all have it.
We all have--
>>GEORGE NOORY:
We're born with it.
>>MAXWELL: We're
all born with it.
We just don't have to use
it as much as we used to.
>>NOORY: Or don't know how to.
>>MAXWELL: Or don't know how to.
Doors just all of a sudden open
to all of these possibilities
that I had shut out.
Anything that happens to you
happens to your energetic body
first before you even hear
it with your physical body.
We've decided to be
here in this human form,
so we can have experiences
that you can only
have in a linear timeline.
When you defocus,
that's when you can sink
into the intuitive information.
Because it doesn't
exist in the solid.
It's a game changer, and
it brings a level of beauty
into your life that no
one could have explained
to me before I opened up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond belief."
For the past 15 plus
years, Isabeau Maxwell
has been helping people
connect to their authentic
natural intuitive abilities.
Originally, a skeptic,
a series of events
led Isabeau to opening
up her own intuition
and revealing her
highest purpose--
humanizing spirits.
Her book is called
"Cracking Open--
Adventures of a
Reluctant Medium."
Why are you called
a reluctant medium?
>>MAXWELL: Because
in the beginning,
I was very reluctant.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: What changed you?
>>MAXWELL: I think, the way--
I probably should
start by describing
how I opened up intuitively.
Like you said, I was
a complete skeptic.
And my grandmother, who
I was very close to,
passed away and, within hours,
showed up in my living room
in spirit form.
Now, for me, that
wasn't the best day.
It was a very
frightening moment.
Because she was not completely
solid, but close to solid.
>>NOORY: Clearly, you could see
an image of your grandmother.
>>MAXWELL: She might as well
have been standing there,
maybe 30% transparent.
It was very impactful.
And, I mean, it
even physically sent
me back a little
bit into the wall.
>>NOORY: Were you scared?
>>MAXWELL: Yes, I
was very scared.
And for that moment
I was scared,
and I remember awkwardly
yelling, don't do that again--
just a random shout.
Then when it was done,
I took a few breaths
and thought, what
if that was her?
It had to be her.
I mean, it was so--
>>NOORY: Was it quick?
>>MAXWELL: It was so quick.
She was there three
seconds maybe.
What was really
interesting to me
is that she was
standing sideways.
And she turned, and
looked over her shoulder,
and smiled, and
winked, and then left.
>>NOORY: And then dissipated.
>>MAXWELL: And just gone,
like a blink and gone.
So honestly, the
reluctant part of me
was I didn't want
that lifestyle.
I had lived 30-some
years already,
believing that wasn't real,
and that was all just for show.
And I didn't think
that was my path.
But what I did want
was my grandmother.
So I--
>>NOORY: You missed her.
>>MAXWELL: I missed her.
>>NOORY: Probably,
you still do, Isabeau.
>>MAXWELL: I do.
I do.
I can communicate with
her, which is wonderful.
But I missed her dearly.
And I reached out to someone,
the strangest person I knew,
which happened to be a Tai
Chi instructor at the time.
And he was a sweet, sweet man.
And he helped me
start to communicate
with her through yes and no.
And at first, honestly, I
was doing it out of grief.
And then when the proof
started to come, I realized,
this is-- this is not grief.
This is real.
>>NOORY: Now, you're not a
medium at that point, right?
>>MAXWELL: Correct.
>>NOORY: OK.
At that point, I was
communicating with her
and received sensations
through yes and no,
pendulum-work type things.
And I recall a day
that I said to her,
I'm worried that I'm
making this up in my head
to hold on to you.
And I really need your
help to give me proof.
>>NOORY: But inside, you might
have been losing it a little
a bit.
>>MAXWELL: I thought
I was losing it.
I was raising two small boys.
I needed to be there
and be present.
And I remember saying
to my grandmother,
I need you to help me.
Really, is this real,
or is this all grief?
And a few days later,
she came to me again.
Now, I'm not fully into
mediumship at this point.
All I can do is feel
that rush that goes
through you, like goosebumps.
>>NOORY: Are you a
believer at this point?
>>MAXWELL: 50/50.
>>NOORY: You're on the fence.
You're on a fence.
>>MAXWELL: And I'm still not
talking to anyone about it
or sharing it.
I was very much on the fence.
And that rush came through me.
I was driving.
I pulled over.
I got my pendulum out.
And I started doing yes-and-no
questions, which, by the way,
it takes a long time--
>>NOORY: It does.
>>MAXWELL: --to get a message.
But I was devoted to this.
And after 20 minutes, I
got a very simple message,
that my mom would have a
financial issue that she
needed assistance with.
She would call me for help.
But then a friend
would help her instead.
And I said, this is a solid
enough message, that I can--
>>NOORY: Track this.
>>MAXWELL: --track this.
And if it doesn't
happen, I can go
reach out for some grief
counseling and help.
That afternoon, my
mom called and said,
I need cash moved from
one bank to another.
>>NOORY: Just like that.
>>MAXWELL: Like that-- and
I remember shaking a little
because it was very surreal.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MAXWELL: And I
said, absolutely.
I drove to the first bank got
some cash, drove to this--
I mean, but then there
was that part of me
that's like, my mom is
in the financial world.
She's a businesswoman.
This has happened before--
>>NOORY: It happens
all the time.
>>MAXWELL: --where
a bank has done--
>>NOORY: Maybe, you made it up.
>>MAXWELL: Yeah, right.
So maybe I'm
remembering something.
And I pulled into her
bank with the cash
to deposit into the
business account.
And she called and
said, oh, hey, hey, hey.
Don't worry about it.
My friend, Lisa,
already handled it.
>>NOORY: But you already
did it, too, right?
>>MAXWELL: No, I hadn't
walked into the bank
yet to deposit the cash.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MAXWELL: Yeah.
So I was going to help her.
But a friend did.
And I sat in that parking lot
for a good hour, just weeping.
There was joy, there was--
like doors just all
of a sudden open
to all of these possibilities
that I had shut out.
And honestly, George,
I just thought
I had my grandma by my side now.
And I was just so excited.
Because I never looked back.
My belief was solid
from that moment on.
>>NOORY: Walked right in.
>>MAXWELL: Walked
right in-- that was it.
That it was just--
there was too many,
what people like to say,
coincidences for
that not to be real.
>>NOORY: You see, and I believe
there are no coincidences.
Things happened for a reason.
>>MAXWELL: Correct,
absolutely, absolutely.
I love calling them
synchronicities.
That's what I love calling them.
>>NOORY: The late
Rosemary Ellen Guiley
was an expert on
mediumship experiences
and research on the afterlife.
I had a great opportunity to
talk with her a few years ago.
Take us through the
moment of death.
What happens on this crossover?
>>ROSEMARY ELLEN GUILEY: I
believe that we go to a between
place--
a transitional place.
Because even when
death is not violent,
like it happens in
sleep, or it's expected,
like through a terminal illness,
we still need a time to adjust.
So we go to a place that's
very familiar to us.
And all the literature
that's been channeled
through mediums and through
spirit communications,
this seems to be something
very much like Earth,
like a park-like setting.
In fact, it's often
called the Park.
>>NOORY: Are we aware
that we're dead?
>>GUILEY: In many cases, yes.
Sometimes when we have
violent transitions,
unexpected through accidents--
>>NOORY: Car accidents.
>>GUILEY: Car accidents,
or natural disasters,
or even an unexpected
criminal assault,
we may not realize that
we're dead right away.
So we meet people
from the other side.
And we're greeted by
family and friends,
sometimes angels,
divine helpers.
And we're kind of
shown the ropes.
Sometimes people travel
through a tunnel of light.
Sometimes they just find
themselves in the park.
Then we're allowed to
adjust to the afterlife.
I believe that it reflects
our thoughts and our feelings.
And initially, people may
want a place very much
like what they left behind.
What we're told by the
dead is that the afterlife
transforms itself
instantly to our thoughts.
So we can have the
home we really wanted.
We can have the body that
we feel is ideal for us--
the state of age where we
felt we were at our best.
And then I believe
that we evolve.
We get adjusted
to the afterlife,
and we discover that there
are other states of being.
>>NOORY: Ironically,
Rosemary Ellen Guiley
is now in the afterlife.
And there are some
people who claim
that she has communicated with
them since she's passed on.
>>MAXWELL: I wouldn't
doubt that at all, yeah.
>>NOORY: So she knows that.
What did you think of
what she had to say?
>>MAXWELL: Spot on.
That's exactly my
experience as well.
For me, I'm grateful that I was
able to meet my first spirit
guide shortly after settling
in with my grandmother.
I met my first spirit guide.
And for almost two years, I
would sit with him and learn.
And he would--
I would just journal
everything that he taught me.
And then I would go
out into the world
and hear an amazing person
like this say exactly what I
had learned, too.
So they eased me into it,
knowing that I was a skeptic
and needed that
kind of extra layer.
And that's exactly how
I experience it as well.
For me, the transition in
death for an individual
is like an escalator.
It's automatic.
There's a pull.
And the further along you
get in the transition,
the more intensified that
unconditional love is.
And top of that, you really
go from a linear timeline
to a non-linear timeline.
And that's what she's
talking about-- the ability
to create around you anything
and everything that you
need in that moment.
>>NOORY: What is
your SAGE method?
What is that?
>>MAXWELL: SAGE method
was interesting.
Like I said, I met with my guide
for a few years and learned.
He was the one that helped
me to hone my intuition.
And after doing that,
I started to work
as a professional medium.
Because that's what I
thought I should do.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MAXWELL: It was just
the next natural step.
And my guide came
to me and said,
you need to take everything
that you and I did,
and put it together, and
give it to other people.
So that they can also hone
their intuition the way you did.
Because George if I can--
>>NOORY: You will.
>>MAXWELL: --anyone can.
You will.
>>MAXWELL: Yeah, exactly.
Because I went from
nothing to full-on medium.
>>NOORY: Are you glad
this happened to you--
this experience?
>>MAXWELL: I am so
grateful, so grateful.
Those first two or
three years, which
is what the book
speaks of, were rough.
They were--
>>NOORY: Emotionally rough?
>>MAXWELL: Emotionally
rough-- my life really
turned upside down.
I was fortunate enough that
all of the people around me
loved me.
I didn't have any
struggles with that.
I think it was more
an internal change.
But now, I see things
in a different way.
There's-- you see things
through the lens of compassion.
>>NOORY: Sure.
What is energetic body practice?
What is that?
>>MAXWELL: That is, hands
down, my favorite tool to teach
people-- my favorite practice.
That is a game changer.
We are raised to be aware
of our physical body.
We clothe it.
We take care of it.
But a lot of us
weren't raised to take
care of our energetic body.
And our energetic body expands
outside of our physical body.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MAXWELL: So it holds our
physical body and cares for it.
What happens in
our day-to-day life
is that anything
that happens to you
happens to your
energetic body first.
So if somebody yells
at you, for example,
the anger energy is going
to hit your energetic body
before you even hear it
with your physical body.
So we're walking
through this lifetime--
>>NOORY: Is it kind of a
buffer for the physical body?
>>MAXWELL: It's more like--
your spirit's more like--
it's what carries this human
body through the world.
And we'll have
times where we don't
know why we're crabby or upset.
It's because perhaps
we went to a market
and walked through the market
and passed a bunch of people
that were crabby and upset.
>>NOORY: And you
pick up on that.
>>MAXWELL: We pick up their
energy into our energetic body.
Yep, and that's not for
us to carry or hold.
>>NOORY: How do you
ground yourself from that?
>>MAXWELL: For me, it's GCP--
ground, clear, protect.
That pattern establishes
care for your body
and for your energetic body.
And it sets the intent.
And really, it's just
that intent and awareness
of your energetic
body that allows
you to keep it
clear of that, which
is not supposed to be in there.
It makes life a lot easier.
And grounding is very typical.
Grounding-- anchor
to Mother Earth
in some way that works best
for you, tree roots or cord
shooting down into the
Earth, something like that.
Clear-- imagine water pouring
through your entire system--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MAXWELL: --and clearing out
what you don't need and then
protect--
not isolate but put
like a bubble around it.
And it's more of a filter.
Let in what's supposed
to be on my path
and keep out what's
not supposed to be.
Moving forward
with that, you now
have a clear channel
and a clear energy body
and only what you're
supposed to be carrying.
It lightens a lot of your path.
>>NOORY: Gaia's Lisa Garr on
her program, Inspirations,
have a chance to
talk with Sonja Grace
about these kind of techniques.
>>SONJA GRACE: People
think of meditation.
And a lot of times, they go
right into their third eye
and think, oh,
yeah, that's where--
I teach a completely
different form of meditation.
Because I am a firm believer
that why we're here on Earth
is to ground our
energy into the Earth,
that the Earth is here
to give us energy.
And if we're spending all of
our time sending our energy out
into other things,
that's actually
how we're creating more
karma for ourselves.
>>LISA GARR: By
putting our energy out?
>>GRACE: Yes, yes.
So let's say,
you're watching TV,
and there's some
disaster that happened.
And you're feeling
just horrible.
And your energy from your third
or maybe even your second--
lot of empaths will
understand what
I'm saying-- will go
out to the television
and go into the whole thing.
And yes, you want
to support that.
But this is not the
way to support it.
Because now, you're hooking up
with those people, their fear,
their anxiety, their
betrayal, everything.
And you're creating more karma.
You're becoming a part
of the collective karma.
Where the energy should
go is into the ground.
And I teach a
meditation that's in--
become an Earth angel.
That is cones of energy
that send that energy down
into the Earth.
So you're receiving
energy from the Earth.
You're sending energy down.
But you're not sending it out.
Now, from here, if you want
to send love energy out,
of course, you should.
That's-- we're here to love at
the deepest level of our being.
>>GARR: So the energy you're
sending down is the negativity
and the fear and--
>>GRACE: No, it's
all your energy.
It is your energy
connecting to the Earth.
It's everything.
>>GARR: So when you
watch that type of media,
and you see it everywhere,
you can't avoid it.
It's in the ethers.
You basically just
ground your own body.
>>GRACE: Yes, you
ground your energy.
>>GARR: And receive then
energy from the Earth--
>>GRACE: Yes.
>>GARR: --who will
constantly give?
>>GRACE: Absolutely.
She's so there for us.
Oh, my goodness.
>>NOORY: Isabeau, Sonja
looked comfortable,
sitting in that chair, right?
>>MAXWELL: She does.
>>NOORY: Legs crossed, no shoes.
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: She was
enjoying herself.
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about the
grounding she was mentioning.
Why is that important?
>>MAXWELL: It's important.
We've decided to be
here in this human form.
And Earth is literally here
to support our journey.
And, I mean, we walk on her.
Every step we take, we
take on Mother Earth.
She's literally our
support structure
from beginning to end.
>>NOORY: It's the
Gaia theory, right?
>>MAXWELL: It is, absolutely.
And she's so loving.
And there's no
limitation to the amount
of energy and the support
that she can give.
Also, another thing I
learned with grounding
very early on-- because
I thought, wait a minute.
I'm trying to talk to spirits,
which are technically-- not
technically, but up there.
Why would I want to
hold myself down here?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MAXWELL: And a really
wise man said, it's
like a telephone pole.
The deeper you bury the pole,
the taller the pole can be
and the more solid it will be.
And it works.
It works so well.
I love what she was talking
about watching a disaster
and that experience
of watching it
brings that negativity
into your energetic body.
And people work hard
to bring about what
they want to manifest
what they want in life.
Well, you need to start with
what's in your energetic body.
Because whatever's in
your energetic body
is attracting more of that.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>MAXWELL: So the more you
fill it up with everything
you're passionate about,
the more that what you're
passionate about, you'll get.
>>NOORY: Is there what
is called clutter?
>>MAXWELL: Clutter, oh.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>MAXWELL: Clutter-- my
experience with intuition
is that it's not necessarily
a gift for a chosen few,
it's a natural sense.
We all have it.
>>NOORY: We're born with it.
>>MAXWELL: We're all
born with it, exactly.
We just don't have to use
it as much as we used to.
>>NOORY: Or don't know how to.
>>MAXWELL: Or don't know
how to, exactly, exactly.
And the little ones,
the two-year-olds,
the three-year-olds,
they're so open.
They're so intuitive.
And so many parents talk
about the experiences
that they have
with their children
being in tuned and
their intuition flowing.
Well, as we grow,
we get clutter--
every thought, every
stressful thought,
every item that we own,
every task we have to do,
everything that's gone unspoken
is one piece of clutter
that clutters in the mind,
and then we ask our intuition
to flow through that.
So the journey of
opening your intuition
is more a journey of inner
work, and healing, and along
with awareness and
understanding of how it works.
Those two things come
together for people
to be able to access
their unique intuition.
>>NOORY: Isabeau,
what happens when
people have self-doubt
about what they're doing,
about who they are?
How do you solve that?
How do you fix that?
>>MAXWELL: You asked
the former skeptic.
I'll tell-- I can
tell you exactly
how to work with that done.
>>NOORY: That's right.
You've been there before.
>>MAXWELL: I have been there.
I was a very big skeptic.
Doubt is a habit knowing that--
it's a habit built off of all
of our previous experience.
And we revert back
to that habit.
So you can have an incredible
intuitive experience,
one that's just, wow, I
can't believe that happened--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAXWELL: --and two days
later, start doubting it again.
That's because for
so long in your life,
that's your pattern to have it.
And the number one tool that
I have found to help with that
is called--
I like to call it the
no-doubt notebook.
And it's a journal
that you use only
for these incredible
experiences.
Like, I knew my friend
was going to call,
and then the phone rang.
You would write that
in that journal.
I knew somebody came through,
and they were 5 foot 2.
They were.
You write that in that journal.
>>NOORY: Right, you were
just thinking of somebody.
I just ran into them.
>>MAXWELL: And I ran into them.
You write that in the journal.
And--
>>NOORY: That's
intuition, isn't it?
>>MAXWELL: It's
intuition, absolutely.
And so what you're
doing is you're
recording your really
big intuitive moments.
So when that habit
of doubt comes back,
you can review
through that journal
again to remind your brain,
really, no, this is real.
And in time, you won't
need the journal.
But it's a great tool.
>>NOORY: Why would people
even have self-doubt
if all these things
are happening to them?
Why doubt it?
>>MAXWELL: I really think it's
a matter of our brain patterns,
how the synapses fire.
I even had that moment with my
grandmother with the pendulum.
And even then, a couple of
days after, I remember going,
is this all really happening?
What we're focused on is we're
focused on the non-solid.
And so we don't have that
tangible, that 1 plus 1
equals 2.
And so when we're
focused on the non-solid,
it's a little harder
for the human mind
to really hold on to that.
>>NOORY: Now, when you
talked about the pendulum
with your grandmother, you would
ask your grandmother questions,
and then the pendulum
would do what?
Yes and no?
>>MAXWELL: Yes and no,
until I got really excited
about something.
And then, I'd say, well, what do
you think about that, grandma?
And it wouldn't move.
>>NOORY: It's remarkable.
>>MAXWELL: And I go,
oh, yeah, yes or no.
I have to go back
to yeses and nos.
>>NOORY: I've used it on myself,
where yes is up and down.
No is left and right.
And you hold it in the middle,
and you mentally think stop,
and it stops.
And then you ask
yourself a question.
And I've had yeses go like this.
>>MAXWELL: Oh, big swings.
>>NOORY: Or nos like this--
I mean, really huge
swinging modes.
>>MAXWELL: Yeah, absolutely.
>>NOORY: It's unbelievable.
It's like a lie
detector test, isn't it?
>>MAXWELL: It is.
I had a really amazing
student once come in.
And I had given her the
task of using the pendulum.
She had never
heard of it before.
She came back to class
the next week and said,
I think, I did it wrong.
And I said, what did you do?
And she said, well,
I was holding it.
And I couldn't get it to swing.
Because she was working
so hard to make sure,
she wasn't moving her hand.
And she said, so I
tied it to a bookshelf
and then I put my
hand underneath it.
And then it would
give me answers.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
>>MAXWELL: And everyone
in the room went, hmm.
Because she didn't,
I think, realized
that that was something that
most of us think is impossible.
>>NOORY: I put my
elbow on the table--
>>MAXWELL: I do.
>>NOORY: --and hold it
just in my two fingers,
and then off it goes.
>>MAXWELL: And just hold
it, and try not to move it.
>>NOORY: Let's talk
about spiritual growth
for a moment, Isabeau.
What is agreed-upon reality?
>>MAXWELL: The
agreed-upon reality
is the solid, as a solid.
It's the molecules really.
The space in between is
what we're looking for.
So one excellent tip that
I love giving people--
I figured this one out myself
through working with my guide--
is when you defocus,
that's when you can sink
into the intuitive information.
Because it doesn't
exist in the solid.
You're not looking
for the solid.
You're looking for
what's in between.
So defocusing your eyes
is a really great tool
to start to get those
intuitive connections.
People talk about
seeing something out
of the corner of their eye, and
then they turn, and it's gone.
>>NOORY: It brushes
by really quick.
>>MAXWELL: Right.
It's not gone.
It's probably still there.
But the thing is that
out of the corner
of your eye, your defocus.
Your peripheral is defocus.
>>NOORY: What is that
thing we saw rush by?
What is that?
>>MAXWELL: It could be a spirit.
It could be an intuitive
piece of information.
>>NOORY: As Heidi Hollis
would say, a shadow person?
>>MAXWELL: It could
be a shadow person.
It could be-- the
possibilities are endless.
But what happens is
we turn, and we look,
and our human eyes start
landing on the solid objects.
Once you do that, then
you're no longer looking in
between the molecules.
You're looking at the molecules.
>>NOORY: Isabeau, how
pre-programmed are we,
where we have to just cleanse
ourself of this and start over?
>>MAXWELL: Well, coming in
when we're born, we're not.
We're just beautifully--
>>NOORY: When you're born.
>>MAXWELL: When you're
born, you're not.
We're beautifully
exactly who we are.
But we choose the family.
We choose a location
before we come down.
And we choose an overall task
of what we want to achieve.
Perhaps, that's
helping children,
or perhaps that's mathematics,
or something like that.
And it's through our childhood
and all of our experiences
that the programming happens.
Perhaps, we have a
family member that
says, oh, you're not artistic.
You're not artistic.
Once you say that enough,
that's that personal programming
only to find out when you're
30 years old, you try to draw,
and your brilliant artists.
>>NOORY: Well, what do
parents tell a little kid
who's got a cup of milk?
Don't spill the milk.
>>MAXWELL: Don't spill the milk.
>>NOORY: And what do they do?
They spill the milk.
>>MAXWELL: Exactly.
>>NOORY: You've programmed
them to spill the milk.
>>MAXWELL: Yes, all of those
money doesn't grow on trees.
Life is hard.
These are all of
the programming.
And not everyone has
that programming.
Some are fortunate to be
in different environments.
But, I believe, that these
moments that we have,
these interactions that
we have with our family
members as we grow up, remember,
this is our soul group.
These are our people.
And they're doing their job.
They're playing their role, and
they're playing it very well.
I like to kind of negate
the positive-negative of it
and say, these are the
challenges that you were given,
so you can overcome them.
It's in the act of
overcoming the challenge.
That's where the
spiritual growth is.
>>NOORY: If you use most of
these tools we've talked about,
what does that allow you to do?
>>MAXWELL: It allows you to
simplify your environment.
It's the complicated environment
that shuts us down, shuts down
the intuition.
It holds us back from accessing
our spirit guides, our higher
self, and just
knowledge, in general.
>>NOORY: By doing that, should
we also live for the moment?
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: How do
you get into what
you call a linear timeline?
What is that?
>>MAXWELL: Linear
timeline-- I like
to talk about linear
timeline as it's the Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday deal.
When we come down
here, we put ourselves
into this linear timeline.
So we can have experiences
that you can only
have in a linear timeline.
Whether that be surprise, or
fear, or worry, or excitement,
these are things that happen to
us emotionally as experiences
in a linear timeline.
And to be in that
moment is to be
excited to be in linear time.
And so looking at--
like, for example, now, I
look at different emotions
in a slightly different way.
I'm excited but not anxious.
Because I'm excited
that I can be excited.
I know I'm in linear time.
I have something
to look forward to.
It's a different way of
looking at everything.
>>NOORY: Can we all grow
by doing things like this?
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely,
absolutely, inner work,
any inner work you can do.
Any healing, or
therapy, or anything
that you do to
better yourself is
going to better your
spiritual path as well.
>>NOORY: Isabeau, one
of our great friends,
Mitch Horowitz, famous
author, of course,
was on Gaia's Great Minds to
discuss exactly what you've
been talking about.
>>MITCHELL HOROWITZ: There are
so many interesting questions
about what creates reality,
where we're on our knees,
looking through a keyhole.
And we may never get more
than a keyhole picture of it
during this lifetime.
But there are
fascinating questions,
for example, about
whether events
that we experience as linear
are really linear after all.
In quantum physics, there's a
theory called the many worlds
theories, which
proposes that there
are infinite numbers of
outcomes going on around us
all the time.
But we experience a limited
conception of reality
through our sensory organs.
And we experience these
things in a linear fashion.
When in fact, they're
going on in this kind
of infinite circuitous fashion
that can't be mapped out
on a line chart.
William James reasoned
in 1902 that the mystic
is like a microscope, that when
the mystic looks at something
as through a microscope,
you're seeing
all kinds of things going on.
You're seeing
cellular structure.
You're seeing molecules.
You're seeing atoms.
You're seeing space
between things.
But when you pan back,
as with the camera,
you're getting less
and less detail.
So the coarseness of
our sensory organs
might not be sufficient
to really take
in everything that's going on.
But the quantum
physicist, the person
looking through a microscope,
the astronomer looking
through a nuclear
telescope, might be seeing
things that are going on.
The mystic, who has a
heightened intuitive ability,
might be seeing things
that are going on
in ways that we don't take in
in our normal day-to-day lives.
So my challenge and the thing
that I'm trying to work with
is whether linear events, as we
experience them exist, at all.
Or whether in fact, by the
very nature of our thoughts,
we're not manifesting
things necessarily.
But we are selecting
things, which
is why it's so important
for the individual
to have some sense of
awareness of the thoughts
that are going on in his or
her head, which are nonstop.
I mean, we all have these
running dialogues occurring,
not only every waking moment
but in our sleep as well.
>>NOORY: He is so spot
on, Isabeau, isn't he?
>>MAXWELL: Yes,
absolutely, 100%.
We are always manifesting.
And that's really the
key to understanding
how important it is to work
with that energetic body.
Because everything
we do is manifesting.
I love how he said, our
thoughts are choosing things.
And that's how it happens.
And eventually in opening
up to your intuition,
you start to live a
life of synchronicities.
Everywhere you go, you get
these beautiful synchronicities.
And--
>>NOORY: You shake
your head sometimes.
>>MAXWELL: You do.
>>NOORY: There's
so many of them.
>>MAXWELL: You think, wow,
this is just incredible.
And some of them are simply fun,
and they don't have messages.
They're just simply
a fun synchronicity
that happened to you.
But you brought that.
And when you can
live this path, you
can live a life of
synchronicities.
And it brings an extra--
I don't know,
sparkle to the road.
>>NOORY: Without doing this,
some of the things Mitch
has talked about and some of
the things you've talked about,
are we incomplete
as human beings?
>>MAXWELL: Oh, absolutely not.
The cool thing about
being a human being
is that you're perfect exactly
how you are in this moment
right now.
>>NOORY: We always were.
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely,
and, for example,
hearing the suggestion of doing
inner work on a show like this,
if you're watching
the show, you made
the decision that was
probably the inner work you
wanted to start.
So then you watched
the show that
gave you the hint that
sparked you to do it.
So we're always perfect in
every moment that we are.
I love what he said
about linear time.
Because it's so true.
Very early on, my guide
who is teaching me
so much said, you're
not here to learn.
You're not-- that would say
that your higher self doesn't
know anything.
You're not here to learn.
You're here to experience.
And the higher self does
not exist in linear time.
So the higher self
sees everything
that's happened to you from
beginning to-- everything
that's happened to you
in this entire lifetime
happens in that instant.
And I love how he
expressed that.
>>NOORY: Why is it important for
us to tap into our intuition?
>>MAXWELL: I think it gives us
a different way of approaching
life--
more of a driver's
seat, you could say,
instead of being a passenger.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAXWELL: More of being--
it sparks your confidence.
It gives you moments that
you could never have,
if you didn't open
up intuitively.
Like he said, when you can
see, and feel, and hear
things that are in between,
it's a game changer.
And it brings a level
of beauty into your life
that no one could have explained
to me before I opened up.
And it's absolutely beautiful.
>>NOORY: Why is it so
important to understand
the spirit world, Isabeau?
>>MAXWELL: The spirit
world, it's so beautiful.
And it's this huge complicated,
amazing realm of beauty.
And I think it's important
for us to talk about it
and to open up more
conversations around it.
I find that by no one's
fault, in particular, we've
leaned a little bit
into dehumanizing
spirits and a little bit
more into the ghost culture.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MAXWELL: Now,
don't get me wrong.
>>NOORY: Which is huge.
>>MAXWELL: It's huge.
It's huge.
And I love a good scary
movie or ghost story.
>>NOORY: Ghost story, sure.
>>MAXWELL: I was on a
paranormal team for a while.
We did ghost hunts.
I think, those all
are incredible.
>>NOORY: You did a
good job on that, too.
>>MAXWELL: Thank you.
>>NOORY: You're
into ghost hunting.
>>MAXWELL: Yes, I was avid ghost
hunter for a number of years.
But when-- we now, and
society hear the word ghost,
we don't necessarily
instantly connect that
with a person, a soul,
somebody who's perhaps stuck
and needs help.
>>NOORY: No, we don't.
It's kind of removed
from being a person.
>>MAXWELL: It's been
kind of removed.
So for me, my passion
is to just remind people
that ghosts are people, too.
And yes, please go ghost hunts.
Because that's really
important work in this world.
But when you're done, if you
could just, in whatever way
that you do it, say a prayer,
send some light energy,
lift them up a little to help
them in their transition.
As long as we're not
taking advantage of that--
because we've disconnected so
much that these are people,
that's really why I think
it's important to keep
an open conversation
about the spiritual world
and remind people, this is
someone's son, or daughter,
or friend who's in spirit form
that we're calling a ghost.
>>NOORY: Are you
amazed at how you've
changed since the moment
your grandmother died?
Look at this metamorphosis
you've gone through.
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely.
I've got to say,
I'm a little nicer.
>>NOORY: You mean, you
weren't this nice before?
>>MAXWELL: [LAUGHS] Oh, no.
I was more impatient.
I was a lot more judgmental.
Because that's all I knew.
And now, with this
perspective, it
comes the ability to
unconditionally love anyone.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAXWELL: Because you
understand why they're here
and what they're doing.
There's still pain.
There's still ups and downs.
But I would safely say that
I am very different than what
I was when I opened.
>>NOORY: Spiritualist
Cindy Dale had a chance
to talk to Lisa Garr again
on the inspirations program
about the spirit community
in what she learned.
>>CINDY DALE: That's Belize.
I went to Belize the
first time with a friend.
And it was another one of
those very not planned.
>>GARR: Trips do a lot of this.
>>DALE: Well, I like
doing it that way.
I'm not going to
bring a group like.
That would be a little
crazy, all right?
We ended up out in the
Cayo Mountain region.
We were two of the first
people to go into a mountain.
We had to climb up a mountain
and go into the mountain.
And there were these
ladders that the--
yeah, the archeologists
had just put in.
Because there was an
ancient ceremonial site
in the middle of
the mountain that
was still preserved for
hundreds and hundreds of years.
It was like the spirits were
still there of these people.
But
>>GARR: When you go into a place
like that, you really have it.
>>DALE: You have
to be honorable.
You can't touch things.
You don't take things.
You don't disturb.
You ask if it's even OK for
you to tune into the place,
to communicate with those
who might still be lingering.
Like you have to get permission.
>>GARR: That's responsible.
>>DALE: It is.
>>GARR: That's good.
>>DALE: So then we
led a group down there
to enable them to have the
same experience as well.
>>GARR: And what was it
that you experienced?
>>DALE: I kept saying--
I'm very visual and very
clairvoyant, especially,
the first time.
I kept seeing the
stories of the people.
I kept seeing them
when they were alive,
and how they took care
of their children,
and how they took
care of each other.
It wasn't all great mystery.
It was village.
It was community.
It was care.
It was love.
And that became the
theme of the group.
Like, in what way are we
blocking that in our own lives?
And in what way can we create
that amongst ourselves?
>>NOORY: Isabeau, why is it
so important, and I like that,
to deal with the spirit world?
>>MAXWELL: The
spirit worlds really
should function for the
highest good of all.
And when somebody
passes, if they
don't complete their
transition and cross over,
then they can't, in turn,
watch out over their loved ones
as they're still continuing
their journey here on Earth.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAXWELL: And I feel it's
really important to help any
spirit that is stuck--
love what she said
about permission.
I am very big into asking
permission for everything.
Even if you intuitively
read another person,
ask permission first.
If you're going to do a
clearing, ask permission first.
>>NOORY: From who?
>>MAXWELL: From--
>>NOORY: Who do you
ask permission from?
>>MAXWELL: I'll ask permission
from a living person
if I get intuitive
information on them.
I'll ask permission
first if I can
give the information to them.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MAXWELL: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: So if you were
doing a reading for me,
you would get my approval first?
>>MAXWELL: Yes.
>>NOORY: Makes sense.
Why do you need to do that?
>>MAXWELL: Because perhaps,
the moment between us
wasn't necessarily about
getting the information.
Perhaps the moment
was simply you
being asked if you're open
to intuitive information.
>>NOORY: And what if I wasn't?
>>MAXWELL: Then that would
be the exact moment for you.
And you would say, I'm
not comfortable with that.
>>NOORY: And you back out?
>>MAXWELL: And I
would say, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Are you sure, you
don't secretly still do it?
>>MAXWELL: No, I don't
secretly still do it.
>>NOORY: Let's find out
about George's spirit.
>>MAXWELL: Let's find
out about George's.
>>NOORY: Let's see
what's going on there.
>>MAXWELL: It's really
important to ask permission,
because it's not my
place nor is it--
I think, anyone else's
to decide when someone
is ready for
information, or when
someone is ready to cross over.
If you walk into
a situation, where
you run into a lot of
spirits that are still
in the in-between, it's
not my place to say,
whether they should
be there or not.
It's my place to ask,
do they need help?
>>NOORY: Are the spirits
sad because they've
died and passed over?
>>MAXWELL: It really varies.
I've seen so many
different situations
of spirits that are in between.
I've seen confusion.
I've seen panic.
I've seen sadness.
I've seen aggression.
I've seen--
>>NOORY: Evil?
>>MAXWELL: Yeah, I've seen
the really hard stuff, too.
And it all depends.
You could have a
mom who doesn't want
to leave because her
kid's going to graduate.
And she doesn't understand
that she can still be there
for him when she crosses over.
I have crossed over a woman,
who was in a car accident,
went on a bad trip with
drugs, and was just terrified,
thinking she still
was on that trip.
So there's confusion.
It's all across the board.
And for some individuals,
who caused emotional harm--
physical and emotional
harm to other people
when they were living,
sometimes when they pass,
instead of completing their
transition process out
of fear of what's going
to happen to them now,
they'll hold still.
They'll dig their heels into
that escalator, stop moving,
and hold still.
And then they'll turn around
and do what brings them comfort
and what soothes them.
And that's really what
you see in between
is spirits trying to
soothe themselves,
trying to find a way to
find solace where they're at
but not move.
>>NOORY: What happens
to a spirit whose human
body died quickly and
unexpectedly, like a car
accident?
You're driving along.
You're having a good time.
You're listening to the radio.
And all of a sudden,
you get hit by a car,
and you're dead instantly.
>>MAXWELL: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: What happens to them?
>>MAXWELL: A lot of confusion--
and I can't speak
to, what happens
to every single one of them.
But what I can say is
we have three bodies.
We have our physical body.
We have our spiritual energetic
body, like we talked about.
And then, we have
the programming body,
which is our human mind.
When we die, we release
the physical body first,
which leaves us with
that energetic body
and that programming body.
So in essence, George,
we're the exact same person,
we just now don't have a body.
And for many, that's
a state of confusion.
>>NOORY: Of course,
who wouldn't be?
>>MAXWELL: Yeah,
that's-- what do I do?
I don't understand
what's happening.
And I run into that a lot.
I run into that a lot--
take a trip to the
grocery store and run
into somebody that wanders in.
And it's like, you're OK.
>>NOORY: Do spirits
come at you like crazy?
>>MAXWELL: They do.
They do.
Because it's really my calling.
Intuitives, people that walk a
really strong spiritual path,
they all have their own
calling in different areas.
Some work with Mother Earth.
Some work with spirits.
Some work with
people who are dying.
And my calling really is
to help spirits cross over.
>>NOORY: And once they
do, are they thankful?
>>MAXWELL: I think so.
I'm going to say it that way,
because most of the time,
I don't know.
I don't know--
>>NOORY: One day you will.
>>MAXWELL: And one day, I will.
I haven't crossed
over that line.
Occasionally, someone will
come back and say, thank you.
And it, still to this day,
warms my heart to tears really.
It's a beautiful thing to see.
>>NOORY: Isabeau, thank you
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MAXWELL: Thank
you for having me.
>>NOORY: And for people who want
more information about you, how
do they find you?
>>MAXWELL: They can find
me at thesagemethod.com.
>>NOORY: Perfect.
You've got a remarkable ability
to be able to communicate
with those from the other side.
Because one day, we'll
all be there too.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]